# CSC20-Projects
Project 1
Blackjack

Project Description
For this project, the student will make a blackjack game.  The blackjack card game is a card game where each player will try to get to the value of 21 with their cards.  
There are only going to be two players, the dealer and one player.  Each player is delt two cards (normally one down and the other up (Not needed for this project.  Both should be up)).  The player will then decide whether they would like to get another card to increase their hand value.  
A winning hand is a hand that is the closest to 21 or a hand that does not go over 21.
A losing hand (Automatically) is if the hand goes over 21 or a hand that is not the closest to 21.

Card values are the following
2 value: 2, 3 value 3, 4 value 4 ……. 10 value 10.  All face cards (king, queen, jack) have a value of 10.  The Ace has a value of 1 or 11.

Example Output:

Dealer Hand:
A of Hearts  – 2 of Spades
Player Hand:
J of Clubs  - 8 of Hearts

Choice (H)it, (S)tay: H

Dealer Hand:
A of Hearts  – 2 of Spades
Player Hand:
J of Clubs  - 8 of Hearts – 10 of Diamonds

Dealer Wins!!!!!

Want to play again (y/n)?

Project Details
The project will contain 3 classes.
1.	Card Class
a.	Contain the following private attributes
i.	Suit Diamond, Club, Heart or Spade.
ii.	Face (What appears on the face, 2, K, A etc.
iii.	Value , the value of the card
b.	Contain the following methods
i.	All getter and setters for all the attributes
ii.	A default constructor
iii.	A print method, for debugging
2.	A deck class
a.	Contain the following attributes
i.	An array of cards called deck.
ii.	The length of the deck
b.	Contain the following methods
i.	Default constructor – creates a deck of unique cards
ii.	All getter and setter methods
iii.	A shuffle method Splits the deck into two mini decks and randomly places the cards back into the main deck.
iv.	A print method for debugging
v.	A deal method.
3.	A Game class
a.	Contain the following attributes
i.	Dealer Hand (Array of cards)
ii.	Dealer Value (value of hand)
iii.	Player Hand (Array of cards)
iv.	Player value (value of hand)
b.	All methods that are going to be needed to play the game.
4.	A main program class (Main method)

Lab 1:
Dictionary


Background

Each student will write a Python program.  This program will manage a list of usernames in a computer system. The list of usernames will contain the username as the key field and the First and Last Name as the value field. The following is an example of what the key field will look like,

“Smithb”:”Bob Smith”

Specific features of the program

The program will allow users to enter a First name and then a Last name.  This data will be placed into a list of username : name pairs.  The user name is constructed from the input.  For example, if the user enters

Sue Jones

The user name would be JonesS  For Thomas Re, 

The username will be ret

There needs to be a function that will sort the list of usernames alphabetically by the first letter of the username.  There will be no duplicates in this list.



Lab 2:
Fibonacci numbers


Background:
Fibonacci numbers appear a lot in science, nature, math and computer science.  It is a sequence that is generated by starting with the numbers 1,1 within the list. The next number within the list will be generated by the sum of the previous 2.  For example, the following is a sequence of 5 Fibonacci numbers.
{1,1,2,3,5}  

Project:
You must write a program to ask the user to input a size of the list to generate.  The program will not allow a size to be less than 2.  The program must give appropriate feedback to the user if the size entered is less than 2 and allow them to try again.  

Once the program is give the size n from the user, the program must generate a list of Fibonacci numbers of that size. 

Sample:
Please enter the size of the Fibonacci sequence: 8
{1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21}

Sample 2:
Please enter the size of the Fibonacci sequence: 1
That is invalid, please try a number greater or equal to 2


Lab 3:
Sieve Prime Numbers


Sieve Prime Number Algorithm

Background
Sieve of Eratosthenes is an algorithm that is used to find prime numbers within a set of ordered values.  The algorithm works off a list.  It starts off at the beginning and then starts to eliminate composite numbers, from that list.  The process is done by starting with the first number of the list, then dividing each of the preceding numbers, by that number.  Any number that produces a whole number, is determined not to be prime, and crossed out of the list.  Bellow is the example of this algorithm in Theory.
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20

Starting with this list at 2, we divide each number after it to see which one is composite.  We then cross out the composite numbers and have the following list after.
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20

From this, you can see that 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 are all composite numbers and have been crossed off the list.  Now divide the remaining number by the next non crossed out number.  In this case, this is going to be number 3.  By dividing all the remaining numbers by three and crossing out the composite number we now have the following.
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20

From this, you can see the only numbers that remain in the list are 1,2,3,5,7,11,13,17, and 19.  Which are all of the prime numbers from 1 and 20.  So the following question remains.
When should this algorithm stop?
The answer is simple.  The stopping value or number in the list is a value that will be less than the square root of the largest number.  With this case the largest number within the list is 20.  The square root of 20 is close to 4.  So the last number to use in the list will be 3 and the algorithm can stop at 3.  As you can see, when we did this, only prime numbers remained.

Project Specs
You will do a computer program that will ask the user to enter the size of a list.   The size of the list will go from 1 to the size entered by the user.  Your program will implement the sieve algorithm to create a list of prime numbers from 1 to size of list.
The size of the list cannot be less than 2.
Each step of the list algorithm should be printed to the screen like the documentation.  No boxes or strike throughs are needed.  However, the composite numbers must be kept and shown that they have been eliminated.
The loops used must stop when the square root of the max number has been reached.

What I would like to see from you all first:
1.	A well-planned approach to solving this problem.  Show or indicate to the instructor that you understand the algorithm and know what will be needed to solve this program or project.
2.	The project broken into smaller pieces and indicate to the instructor which piece should be solved first.
3.	Then write the code, test each piece, and get it working, BEFORE starting on the next piece of the project.
4.	Combine the pieces and then get the function working completely.  Test the program with larger lists that the example and verify that you have the expected output.

